INTRODUCTION.

 

Tne object of the present volume is to shew more
completely the precise points of differente between the
Chronicles of Wendover nnd Paris, by furnishing the
render with the additions nnd various readings made hy
the latter hiswrinn to the work of the former, and so
rendering the history more perfect, by combining the
lebonrs of both writers, so far ns they nre the narrum-s
of contemporaneous events* Iu doing this, it was the
origiue] intention of the editor to include nlso a col-
latinu of the Historia Minor; but the ρει-113111 of the first
few peges of thnt work, nppended to this Introduction,
will he sufficient, it is hoped, to shew that such an
attempt, however desirable, wns altogether imprncti-
cnble. The different style of language used in relnting
the same events as are recorded in tho Grenter Chronicle,
the ndditionnl matter also with which it is supplied,
would have made it necessary to print volumes in order
to render such n collntion at all perfect. 12 does, in-
deod⁷ seem extraordinery that such e collntion should
never have been made: still moro so, perhaps. that the
work itself never should hnve been printed, being, ae
it is, so entirely throughout the original work os Mat-
thew Paris, and existing, ue at tho present day, in the
original hnndwriting of its ingenious and learned oom-
pilerr' In former times, however, meu appear to heve
rested equally well sntisfied with the Historia Mnjorg

 

¹ 1.. ιιι. seem Mum, ms, ¹2³3- u c. vn. ὂ

